
PS C:\Users\Acer\OneDrive\Documents\Chess> npm i express
PS C:\Users\Acer\OneDrive\Documents\Chess> npm install socket.io
PS C:\Users\Acer\OneDrive\Documents\Chess> npm install chess.js

what is socket io
what is the chess.js


🚀 Project: Real-Time Multiplayer Chess Game
💻 Technologies: Node.js, Socket.IO, Chess.js, HTML/CSS, JavaScript, EJS, TailwindCSS

I developed a full-stack real-time multiplayer chess game that allows players to compete with each other or watch as spectators, featuring a custom adjustable countdown timer for each player. The project showcases my skills in JavaScript, Socket.IO, and Chess.js to create a seamless, interactive experience.

Key Features:
Real-Time Gameplay: Players can make moves in real time, with updates broadcasted instantly to all connected clients using Socket.IO.
Dynamic Role Assignment: Automatically assigns roles as White, Black, or Spectator, depending on the number of players.
Custom Timer: Each player has a countdown timer that can be customized before the match starts. The timer stops and switches when turns change, ensuring fair play.
Responsive Chessboard UI: Built with HTML/CSS and TailwindCSS, the chessboard adapts to different screen sizes while maintaining an intuitive drag-and-drop interface for moving pieces.
Move Validation & Check Alerts: Leveraged Chess.js to handle move validation, check, checkmate, and stalemate conditions.
Spectator Mode: Allows additional users to join as spectators and view the game in real-time.
Game Over Notifications: Alerts players when checkmate, stalemate, or time expiration occurs.
Challenges Overcome:
Implemented bidirectional communication to handle player moves and timers, ensuring synchronization across all clients.
Built a custom time management system to handle different game durations, allowing users to set their own time limits before starting.
Used Chess.js for accurate chess rule enforcement, preventing illegal moves and highlighting checks.
What I Learned:
This project deepened my understanding of real-time web applications and reinforced best practices for full-stack development. I gained hands-on experience with managing state across multiple clients, handling asynchronous events, and optimizing user interactions for a smooth gaming experience.

🔗 GitHub Repository
Feel free to connect and discuss this project or any collaboration opportunities!


